We created our first measures,
let's continue.
So we have our measure for the total population and for the average population,
now what if we want to calculate total female population?
We can do that but we have to use a more,
well I would call it advanced formula but still you will see it's quite easy.
So we will again use a new measure and name that measure population
female, like this.
So to calculate the total based on a condition, we will use the calculate formula and
this works like this.
We simply write calculate and here you can see that became then apply some filters,
so let's press tab and the expression that we want to have,
well that's simply the sum, right?
So I want have to the sum, press tab and the sum of the total population right here
and we can close that and now we have to set the filter and to set the filter,
we can simply write filter again, press tab and now we have to refer to the table where the filter
should be placed to
and this is the FACT-Population table, write another comma, again write FACT-Population and now select
the FACT-Population population column
and that's wrong.
We don't need the FACT-Population column,
we need the gender column, right?
So let's change that,
I hope you pay attention, right
because otherwise we would do things wrong here.
So the FACT-Population gender
and if gender is equal to female, female like this.
So this is what we did right now,
let's press enter and see if it works or before we check if it works,
let's quickly go through that formula again because it was a little bit longer than the initial ones we
had.
So we said we want to calculate the sum in the FACT-Population table in the column population,
so this right here but only if I'm just translating that, only if the FACT-Population table
and to be more precise, the FACT-Population table and the gender column,
so right here, is equal to female.
So only if we have female right here, it would calculate the total and
that's what we did.
So now that we understood the formula better,
let's go back to our report view and create another visualization and to do that, we simply press
escape first to unselect the currently selected visualizations and now select this card visualization.
We will learn that in the next module of course,
so no worries again and if I drag it right here and now select our population female right here, then you
can see the total number of the female population throughout all of the period of course.
So now we get that
but what if you want to have the same thing for the male population?
Well then it's quite easy, right?
We simply can go back to the data view, select that formula
and copy it,
press new measure,
enter the formula or paste the formula,
rename it to population male and also change the gender from female to male, like this
and press enter and now we've got the male population, and now I want to create one last measure.
We now have the total population and we have the total population for the females for instance,
so how could we now create a measure that calculates the share of the female population in the total
population?
We can do that quite easily because we can again create a new measure, call that percentage female in
total for instance or also call it population,
sorry because of that sorting we talked about
and if you now write square brackets and now write p over population, you can see that you can also
select our measures
and this is also great functionality.
As soon as you define measures, you can select them in your formula bar,
so if you want to calculate the share of the female population in the total population, you can simply
select the population female right here, press tab and now divide it by, again square brackets,
population
total right here and press enter.
And now we have to go back to our report view, select our car chart and now simply select the population
share in percentage of the females and drag it right here and now that you can see that this is not
working as it should work, right?
So we have the 0.5 and we would like to have that as percentage. To do that, you simply select the measure
right here and if we now go to the modeling ribbon and the format area,
you can simply format that as percentage, like this
and now we can see that we calculated a share of 49.66% of the female population
in the total population throughout all periods considered
and we just did that with those easy measures that we created.
Now this was a basic overview of those measures.
As you saw in the official documentation, there are a lot more DAX formulas that you can use and that
you can apply depending on the needs in your data model
but as we now have a basic understanding of the DAX formulas,
I think it's time for us to continue to the next module and think about how to create some great
visualizations because at the moment, this doesn't look really good, right? Now before we do that,
we have to do some minor things first.
Let's have a look at those things in the next video.